Going semi nautical.
Nowadays hybrid vehicles are very fashionable, but our hybrid was very much ahead of its time, and in all honesty it probably still would be.
This was a hybrid cabin cruiser boat stroke caravan made of fibreglass on a metal chassis with two wheels and an inboard petrol jet engine.
Allegedly the idea of a marine architect in Nottingham launched on an unsuspecting public in 1973, which was the era of hovercrafts and amphicars, and according to legend the subject of a disastrous PR exercise at the launch.
The story goes that due to the strength of the river flow and the lack of power in the engine, a party of local dignitaries, including the mayor, had to be rescued to avoid being swept over a weir, risking drowning.
It is said that only some sixty odd were made before the embarrassed inventors smashed up the moulds, and yes we bought one.
In my defence I would say a. It was cheap. b. I'd only owned a rowing boat on our pond up to this acquisition. c. We already had a camper van and this seemed a logical development.
d. When sanity prevailed after only a bit of cleaning I sold it for a £500 profit.
So how did this come about? Blame the internet.
We were out for a day in Sussex near Boldune Castle, not far from our home, went on a river near the pub garden where we were having lunch, we saw a sweet little cabin cruiser.
Someone in the bar commented it was used by a local minister who sailed between two churches. I was never able to establish the truth of this but was entranced by the idea of a small river boat, probably another Toad of Toad haul moment.
A trawl of the classifiers of boats for sale came up with a caro boat for sale and restoration on the River Trent near Nottingham.
A subsequent internet search revealed an active caro boat owner's forum, complete with helpful hints on restoration and seductive photos of comfy interiors with kitchens and adaptable sofa beds and folding tables of the sort we were familiar with from our caravans and camper van.
Coincidentally we were due to stay with a friend not far away from the River Trent so I took the plunge and phoned the owner.
He said it was moored on the river and described it as a partial restoration project but if we went to see it and we were still interested he could arrange delivery to the south of England.
Some days later we found ourselves on the banks of the River Trent viewing the abandoned boat in rarity.
The seller was not available but had sent some photos to help us locate it and recognise it although recognition wasn't so much just a problem as there was nothing else like it.
It wasn't moored on an official jetty but tethered to a tree and although afloat we could see water and god knows what else inside it.
So back at home I found myself a few days later phoning the owner and saying having seen it we were still interested but would getting it to East Sussex present any problems and what would it cost us?
This would be no problem and he had someone who could deliver as he wasn't available as it was his busy season.
This would be for an all-in price of £250 delivered and we would become the new owners and the boat would be brought to Sussex.
I then made the mistake of asking what he did that made him so busy in the summer. The reply shocked me.
I'm a professional clown he said with a certain amount of undisguised pride.
We bought a boat with wheels full of water and mud some 200 plus miles away from a clown.
I spent the next few days before the agreed delivery date researching things caraboked.
The small group of owners were a helpful resource about the history of the craft and hints and details about the restoration process.
One enthusiast even sent me a DVD of the restoration process of his own craft.
All of these made me even keener for our own dream boat to arrive.
There was a rather curious phone call from the clown's friend also known as the delivery man the day before the agreed date.
We should have set some alarm bells ringing.
I'm planning to leave Nottingham very early tomorrow morning so should be with you around nine-ish?
Great no problem you have the email with local directions for our house you can always phone when nearby and I can direct you.
Yes thanks I have one question are you south or north of London?
A little shocked I explained East Sussex was south of London and described the junction number they would need to leave the M25 from.
Yes I've heard of the M25 is it a motorway?
I'm sure we'll find you see you tomorrow morning and he was gone.
I cynically commented that it sounded like our boat vendor had recruited one of the other clowns from the circus for the delivery but I hoped I was joking.
The next morning nine o'clock came and went so did ten o'clock and eleven o'clock and I eagerly listened to the twelve o'clock radio news bulletin to see if there were any reports of a shutdown of any southbound carriageways on the motorway network.
Due to a hybrid boat caravan vehicle incident at last around 12.30 the phone went hello it's Bob delivering your boat is taking longer than I thought.
We've been over the large bridge and through the toll tunnel and now we see the signs to the airport is that near you we forgot to bring our road atlas.
Signs to Gatwick airport you need to leave the M25 at the junction for the A21 sign posted to Hastings.
No the airport's Stansted.
What are you going north?
But we can't be we crossed the Thames on the bridge.
Yes but somehow you crossed it again by using the tunnel.
I don't know how did you leave the motorway somewhere after the bridge?
There were some roadworks and we all got a bit confused I don't really know so we don't go to Stansted Airport then?
No you need to turn off at the next junction and come back onto the motorway to go south.
Inspiration kicked in.
Is it sunny there? It is here.
You need to go south towards the sun.
Call again when you leave the motorway and you are on the A21 and I'll drive out and look for you and lead you back.
The plan seemed to have a flaw as far as the clown driver was concerned.
Yes but how will I recognise you?
You won't need to. I will spot you.
There won't be any other caravoats being towed on the English road network today.
I'm prepared to risk that.
I cheered myself up by imagining the scenes in the rooms where the motorway cameras are monitored.
There's that weird caravan boat thing again.
Or maybe there's another of those weird boat caravan things.
That's the third or fourth one I've seen today. Never seen one before.
I was phoned to be told the deliverers were now on the A21 and still have their controls set for the heart of the sun just like the early Pink Floyd release.
I left for the planned interception leaving the gate to the drive open to allow the Hope Fork vehicle trailer boat caravan even unto rival
and hoping to avoid a multiple vehicle boat trailer caravan shunt while I stopped to open the gate on my return.
The rendezvous went surprisingly smoothly.
The car trailer caravan boat combination was spotted by me from the lay-by where I parked
and phoned to confirm I was able to overtake on the next straight and lead them the few miles back home.
After the drama of the preceding few hours the drop off was straightforward
and the delivery man left refusing our offer of refreshment and before I could pluck up the courage to confirm his clown credentials.
We were now the proud owners of a caravan boat restoration project including the generous helping of River Trent mud
which covered the floor and some of the lower walls of the cabin.
For the first few weeks the activity was restricted to clearing out the mud
and generally cleaning off the dirt and mould so we could have a proper look at the task ahead.
I've copied below into the book some original brochures from the early 1970s
which together with other material from the enthusiasts of the Carapodones group had spurred us on with the restoration.
Next using a jet washer we were able to strip off the green paint to reveal the yellow self-coloured fibreglass
and the remnants of an old name transfer giving the craft the glorious name of Hippo
which seemed to accurately fit its top heavy bulbous form.
The jet wash and the volume of water at least proved that the hull was watertight as it needed to dry out or be bailed out.
The original brochure and restoration DVD showed a large expanse of glass
but most of the panels had been replaced on ours by either plywood or frosted glass.
Taking a piece of ply out of one of the panels towards the front or bow as us boat owners call it
revealed the aluminium frame to be in good condition once the mast stick was laboriously scraped out.
We found that cleaning and restoring the upper part of the boat or caravan to be possible for us
but the restoration hints from other owners suggested reinstalling the tow bar
and arranging a secure fitting for the necessary outboard motor
plus arranging the controls to be placed near the bow to be quite a specialised task.
On top of this was the question of the wheels and drum brakes necessary for the caravan or boat to be towed.
This was definitely work for another day.
We already had fitted out our VW camper van with a camping interior
comprising storage cupboards, a rock and roll convertible bed, sink with pumped water,
a small gas cooker and fridge, plus folding seats and tables.
So the interior fittings were felt to be within our skill set.
I'm not sure what it was that exactly brought our plans for restoration to a halt.
Maybe I have insufficient nautical aspirations.
Apart from a few ferry trips, a couple of dinghy sailing trips with friends and some windsurfing lessons,
my water-going experiences mostly like the London power station, Bankside.
It may have been a commitment to the country garden of a few acres that occupied much of our free time.
Coupled with ownership I'd already had of two other motoring rarities and keeping them running,
namely the 66 VW split screen and the 73 Volvo 1800.
Having come to a decision about abandoning the project, the next task was to sell it.
Although the caravote owners forum had been a welcome source of information,
it seemed that for all of them the ownership of one caravote was sufficient.
Maybe their own trials and tribulations of restoration and ownership had also deterred their friends,
or maybe they were so eccentric to not have any friends, who knows.
The conclusion was to put it on eBay, although there was some debate which category to use,
boat, caravan or caravan-boat. I think I must have used both.
Not surprisingly it was the only one on there, worldwide.
Deciding not to be greedy I put it up with an opening bid at the price I'd bought it for, £150.
I was recently experienced in using eBay, both for buying and selling,
so I wasn't surprised that I didn't receive any bids for the first half of the week,
but I was pleasantly surprised how many viewings it got in the high hundreds.
There was also a healthy number of watchers, over 50 after four days,
but I'm sure many of these clicked on to watch to show their partner or colleague later,
who may have dismissed a verbal description as to some type of hallucination.
Still, whatever happened, at least we wouldn't have to wrap it up.
I mentioned this as I had around the same time unwisely expressed some outrage
at a Sussex auction house that had severely disappointed an elderly friend of a friend
by selling a large and precious to her bone china dinner service
and then achieving a grand total for her after commission of some £30.
Our friend Yvonne was so upset on her behalf, particularly as she was contemplating
doing the same with her Royal Dalton service that she'd collected over the years,
but admitted it would break her heart to get so little for something she'd collected at far greater expense.
I'd rashly said that I believed it would be much more profitable to list it piecemeal on eBay,
where collectors could add to their collections.
The commitment made that followed a programme of photographing dozens of pieces
and inputting individual listings of tea plates, gravy boats and serving dishes and a whole lot more.
This was followed by some exciting end of auction bidding
and Yvonne's joy at the idea that two of her dinner plates were after Canada or Holland.
The most onerous part was the wrapping parties that seemed to take hours
and a lot of bubble wrap, but it was all worth it when the auctions netted over £350 for her.
There was a poignant moment when she said that although she was pleased with the sales,
she wished she'd just kept a couple of things.
Luckily, being experienced in the vagaries of human nature,
we'd held back a couple of what I think are called trios, a cup, saucer and a plate, plus a small jug.
This, she said, was the icing on the cake.
Anyway, there was no way we were keeping any souvenirs of the caravote.
We'd only just distributed the River Trent Mod in the hedge.
On the day of the auction end, the number of views and watchers escalated again
and by the time we sat down to watch the last 20 minutes before it ended, with the glass each to calm us,
the numbers kept climbing and new bids came in.
At first it climbed slowly, 160, 165, 175, 200.
There may be some of the bidders who were also fortified with drinks.
The bid started to climb in £50 increments with a last-minute flurry during the 30-second countdown to achieve £750.
Brilliant!
The following week the buyer arrived and it was trailing back to the Midlands.
It was going home.
Out of curiosity, I googled caravote at the time of writing this and one had been offered in 2020 for completion at offers around £3,500,
described as one of the last dozen in existence.
Anyone tempted?
Then I found another one that had been restored and at that end the auction unsold,
but with a starting price of £14,500.